CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Devhost

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Devhost! This document provides guidelines and instructions for contributing.

## Before Submitting a Pull Request

### 1. Run Linting

**Required before every PR submission:**

```bash
# Check for linting issues
python -m ruff check .

# Check formatting
python -m ruff format --check .

# Auto-fix formatting issues (optional)
python -m ruff format .
```

All linting checks must pass. No warnings or errors should be present.

### 2. Run Tests

**Required before every PR submission:**

```bash
# Run all tests
python -m unittest discover

# Run specific test file (optional)
python -m unittest tests.test_app

# Run with verbose output (optional)
python -m unittest discover -v
```

All tests must pass (100% pass rate). Do not submit PRs with failing tests.

### 3. Test Your Changes Manually

Before submitting, verify your changes work as expected:

```bash
# Install in editable mode
pip install -e .[dev,tui]

# Start the router
make start
# OR
uvicorn router.app:app --port 7777 --reload

# Test your changes
devhost add myapp 8000
devhost open myapp
```

### 4. Update Documentation

If your changes affect user-facing functionality:

- Update [README.md](README.md) if adding new features
- Update [.github/copilot-instructions.md](.github/copilot-instructions.md) for architectural changes
- Update [examples/](examples/) if adding new integration patterns
- Add docstrings to new functions/classes

### 5. Commit Message Guidelines

Write clear, descriptive commit messages:

```bash
# Good examples:
git commit -m "Add WebSocket proxy support to router"
git commit -m "Fix: Handle port conflicts in Windows environment"
git commit -m "Docs: Update README with tunnel provider examples"

# Bad examples:
git commit -m "fix bug"
git commit -m "update"
git commit -m "wip"
```

**Format:**
- Start with a verb (Add, Fix, Update, Remove, Refactor)
- Keep first line under 72 characters
- Add detailed explanation in the body if needed

## Development Workflow

### Setting Up Your Environment

1. **Fork and clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/devhost.git
cd devhost
```

2. **Create a virtual environment:**

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # or venv\Scripts\activate on Windows
```

3. **Upgrade packaging tools (recommended):**
pip 
Some Python/venv installs (notably Python 3.12+) create environments with `pip` but without `setuptools`/`wheel`. If you ever see errors like `BackendUnavailable: Cannot import 'setuptools.build_meta'`, run this step.

```bash
python -m pip install --upgrade pip setuptools wheel
```

4. **Install development dependencies:**

```bash
pip install -e .[dev,tui,qr,tunnel]
```

5. **Create a feature branch:**

```bash
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
```

### Making Changes

1. **Write your code** following the existing code style
2. **Add tests** for new functionality
3. **Update documentation** as needed
4. **Run linting and tests** (see above)
5. **Commit your changes** with clear messages

### Submitting Your PR

1. **Push to your fork:**

```bash
git push origin feature/your-feature-name
```

2. **Create a Pull Request** on GitHub with:
   - Clear description of what changed and why
   - Reference to related issues (if any)
   - Screenshots/examples for UI changes
   - Confirmation that linting and tests pass

3. **Respond to feedback** from maintainers

## Code Style Guidelines

### Python Style

- Follow PEP 8 conventions
- Use type hints where appropriate
- Maximum line length: 120 characters (enforced by ruff)
- Use double quotes for strings
- 4 spaces for indentation (no tabs)

### Naming Conventions

- Functions/methods: `snake_case`
- Classes: `PascalCase`
- Constants: `UPPER_SNAKE_CASE`
- Private methods: `_leading_underscore`

### Example:

```python
from typing import Optional

class RouteManager:
    """Manages route registration and lifecycle."""
    
    DEFAULT_PORT = 7777
    
    def __init__(self, config_path: str):
        self._config_path = config_path
    
    def add_route(self, name: str, port: int) -> Optional[dict]:
        """Add a new route to the configuration.
        
        Args:
            name: Route name (subdomain)
            port: Target port number
            
        Returns:
            Route configuration dict if successful, None otherwise
        """
        # Implementation here
        pass
```

## Testing Guidelines

### Writing Tests

- Use `unittest` framework
- Put tests in `tests/` directory
- Name test files: `test_*.py`
- Name test methods: `test_*`
- Use descriptive test names

### Test Example:

```python
import unittest
from devhost_cli.validation import validate_port

class TestValidation(unittest.TestCase):
    def test_validate_port_accepts_valid_port(self):
        """Should accept ports in valid range (1-65535)"""
        self.assertTrue(validate_port(8000))
        self.assertTrue(validate_port(3000))
    
    def test_validate_port_rejects_invalid_port(self):
        """Should reject ports outside valid range"""
        self.assertFalse(validate_port(0))
        self.assertFalse(validate_port(70000))
```

## Project Structure

```
devhost/
├── devhost_cli/          # CLI package
│   ├── frameworks/       # Framework-specific helpers
│   ├── middleware/       # ASGI/WSGI middleware
│   └── router/           # Router core logic
├── router/               # FastAPI router app
├── tests/                # Test suite
├── examples/             # Usage examples
├── caddy/                # Caddy configuration
└── completions/          # Shell completions
└──devhost_cli/     # CLI package
    ├── cli.py            # Core CLI commands (add, remove, list)
    ├── config.py         # Legacy config handling (devhost.json)
    ├── state.py          # v3 state management (~/.devhost/state.yml)
    ├── caddy.py          # Caddy lifecycle management
    ├── tunnel.py         # cloudflared/ngrok/localtunnel integration
    ├── runner.py         # Framework app runner
    ├── router_manager.py # Router process management
    ├── validation.py     # Target/port validation
    ├── platform.py       # Platform detection
    └── windows.py        # Windows-specific helpers
└── devhost_tui/          # TUI dashboard package
    └── app.py            # TUI dashboard implementation
    └── modals.py         # TUI data models
    └── scanners.py       # TUI scanning utilities
    └── widgets.py        # TUI custom widgets
└── router/               # FastAPI router app
    ├── app.py            # FastAPI proxy with WebSocket support
    ├── requirements.txt  # Router dependencies (httpx, websockets)
    └── Dockerfile        # Container build (port 7777)

```

## Getting Help

- **Questions?** Open a [Discussion](https://github.com/Patoruzuy/devhost/discussions)
- **Bug reports?** Open an [Issue](https://github.com/Patoruzuy/devhost/issues)
- **Feature requests?** Open an [Issue](https://github.com/Patoruzuy/devhost/issues) with `[Feature Request]` prefix

## License

By contributing to Devhost, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the MIT License.

---

Thank you for contributing to Devhost! 🎉

Commit message:

feat: Add Devhost v3.0 architecture plan and documentation
- Introduced a comprehensive architecture plan for Devhost v3.0, focusing on proxy modes and CLI enhancements.
- Created new documentation files covering CLI reference, configuration, external proxy integration, modes, publishing, troubleshooting, and tunnels.
- Updated existing documentation to reflect the new architecture and features, ensuring clarity on usage and setup.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Devhost

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Devhost! This document provides guidelines and instructions for contributing.

## Before Submitting a Pull Request

### 1. Run Linting

**Required before every PR submission:**

```bash
# Check for linting issues
python -m ruff check .

# Check formatting
python -m ruff format --check .

# Auto-fix formatting issues (optional)
python -m ruff format .
```

All linting checks must pass. No warnings or errors should be present.

### 2. Run Tests

**Required before every PR submission:**

```bash
# Run all tests
python -m unittest discover

# Run specific test file (optional)
python -m unittest tests.test_app

# Run with verbose output (optional)
python -m unittest discover -v
```

All tests must pass (100% pass rate). Do not submit PRs with failing tests.

### 3. Test Your Changes Manually

Before submitting, verify your changes work as expected:

```bash
# Install in editable mode
python -m pip install -e ".[dev,all]"

# Start the router
make start
# OR
uvicorn router.app:app --port 7777 --reload

# Test your changes
devhost add myapp 8000
devhost open myapp
```

### 4. Update Documentation

If your changes affect user-facing functionality:

- Update [README.md](README.md) if adding new features
- Update [.github/copilot-instructions.md](.github/copilot-instructions.md) for architectural changes
- Update [examples/](examples/) if adding new integration patterns
- Add docstrings to new functions/classes

### 5. Commit Message Guidelines

Write clear, descriptive commit messages:

```bash
# Good examples:
git commit -m "Add WebSocket proxy support to router"
git commit -m "Fix: Handle port conflicts in Windows environment"
git commit -m "Docs: Update README with tunnel provider examples"

# Bad examples:
git commit -m "fix bug"
git commit -m "update"
git commit -m "wip"
```

**Format:**
- Start with a verb (Add, Fix, Update, Remove, Refactor)
- Keep first line under 72 characters
- Add detailed explanation in the body if needed

## Development Workflow

### Setting Up Your Environment

1. **Fork and clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/devhost.git
cd devhost
```

2. **Create a virtual environment:**

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # or venv\Scripts\activate on Windows
```

3. **Upgrade packaging tools (recommended):**
Some Python/venv installs (notably Python 3.12+) create environments with `pip` but without `setuptools`/`wheel`. If you ever see errors like `BackendUnavailable: Cannot import 'setuptools.build_meta'`, run:

```bash
python -m pip install --upgrade pip setuptools wheel
```

4. **Install development dependencies:**

```bash
python -m pip install -e ".[dev,all]"
```

5. **Create a feature branch:**

```bash
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
```

### Making Changes

1. **Write your code** following the existing code style
2. **Add tests** for new functionality
3. **Update documentation** as needed
4. **Run linting and tests** (see above)
5. **Commit your changes** with clear messages

### Submitting Your PR

1. **Push to your fork:**

```bash
git push origin feature/your-feature-name
```

2. **Create a Pull Request** on GitHub with:
   - Clear description of what changed and why
   - Reference to related issues (if any)
   - Screenshots/examples for UI changes
   - Confirmation that linting and tests pass

### Copilot Code Review (Optional)

If GitHub Copilot code review is enabled for your repository/org, you can request it on a pull request the same way you request a human reviewer:

- Open a PR
- Add **Copilot** as a reviewer (or use the PR UI action that requests a Copilot review, if present)

Availability and UI labels vary by GitHub plan and org settings.

3. **Respond to feedback** from maintainers

## Code Style Guidelines

### Python Style

- Follow PEP 8 conventions
- Use type hints where appropriate
- Maximum line length: 120 characters (enforced by ruff)
- Use double quotes for strings
- 4 spaces for indentation (no tabs)

### Naming Conventions

- Functions/methods: `snake_case`
- Classes: `PascalCase`
- Constants: `UPPER_SNAKE_CASE`
- Private methods: `_leading_underscore`

### Example:

```python
from typing import Optional

class RouteManager:
    """Manages route registration and lifecycle."""
    
    DEFAULT_PORT = 7777
    
    def __init__(self, config_path: str):
        self._config_path = config_path
    
    def add_route(self, name: str, port: int) -> Optional[dict]:
        """Add a new route to the configuration.
        
        Args:
            name: Route name (subdomain)
            port: Target port number
            
        Returns:
            Route configuration dict if successful, None otherwise
        """
        # Implementation here
        pass
```

## Testing Guidelines

### Writing Tests

- Use `unittest` framework
- Put tests in `tests/` directory
- Name test files: `test_*.py`
- Name test methods: `test_*`
- Use descriptive test names

### Test Example:

```python
import unittest
from devhost_cli.validation import validate_port

class TestValidation(unittest.TestCase):
    def test_validate_port_accepts_valid_port(self):
        """Should accept ports in valid range (1-65535)"""
        self.assertTrue(validate_port(8000))
        self.assertTrue(validate_port(3000))
    
    def test_validate_port_rejects_invalid_port(self):
        """Should reject ports outside valid range"""
        self.assertFalse(validate_port(0))
        self.assertFalse(validate_port(70000))
```

## Project Structure

```
devhost/
├── devhost_cli/          # CLI package
│   ├── frameworks/       # Framework-specific helpers
│   ├── middleware/       # ASGI/WSGI middleware
│   └── router/           # Router core logic
├── router/               # FastAPI router app
├── tests/                # Test suite
├── examples/             # Usage examples
├── caddy/                # Caddy configuration
└── completions/          # Shell completions
└──devhost_cli/     # CLI package
    ├── cli.py            # Core CLI commands (add, remove, list)
    ├── config.py         # Legacy config handling (devhost.json)
    ├── state.py          # v3 state management (~/.devhost/state.yml)
    ├── caddy.py          # Caddy lifecycle management
    ├── tunnel.py         # cloudflared/ngrok/localtunnel integration
    ├── runner.py         # Framework app runner
    ├── router_manager.py # Router process management
    ├── validation.py     # Target/port validation
    ├── platform.py       # Platform detection
    └── windows.py        # Windows-specific helpers
└── devhost_tui/          # TUI dashboard package
    └── app.py            # TUI dashboard implementation
    └── modals.py         # TUI data models
    └── scanners.py       # TUI scanning utilities
    └── widgets.py        # TUI custom widgets
└── router/               # FastAPI router app
    ├── app.py            # FastAPI proxy with WebSocket support
    ├── requirements.txt  # Router dependencies (httpx, websockets)
    └── Dockerfile        # Container build (port 7777)

```

## Getting Help

- **Questions?** Open a [Discussion](https://github.com/Patoruzuy/devhost/discussions)
- **Bug reports?** Open an [Issue](https://github.com/Patoruzuy/devhost/issues)
- **Feature requests?** Open an [Issue](https://github.com/Patoruzuy/devhost/issues) with `[Feature Request]` prefix

## License

By contributing to Devhost, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the MIT License.

---

Thank you for contributing to Devhost! 🎉
