docs/installation.md, before:

# Installation Guide

Devhost is a Python-based tool. It works on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

## Prerequisites

- **Python 3.10 or higher**
- **pip** (Python package manager)

## 1. Core Installation

Install the core package from PyPI:

```bash
pip install devhost
```

## 2. Optional Extras

Devhost offers several extras for specific workflows:

| Extra | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `[tui]` | Interactive terminal dashboard (`devhost dashboard`) |
| `[qr]` | QR code generation for mobile access |
| `[fastapi]` | Helpers for FastAPI integration |
| `[flask]` | Helpers for Flask integration |
| `[django]` | Helpers for Django integration |
| `[dev]` | Testing and linting tools (for contributors) |

To install multiple extras:
```bash
pip install "devhost[tui,qr,fastapi]"
```

## 3. System Proxy (Optional)

If you plan to use **System Mode** (portless URLs on 80/443), you need **Caddy** installed on your system.

### Windows
The easiest way is via [WinGet](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli):
```powershell
winget install CaddyServer.Caddy
```
Or download the binary from [caddyserver.com](https://caddyserver.com/download).

### macOS
Using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):
```bash
brew install caddy
```

### Linux
Follow the [official installation instructions](https://caddyserver.com/docs/install#debian-ubuntu-raspbian) for your distribution.

## 4. Verification

Run the diagnostics command to ensure everything is set up correctly:

```bash
devhost doctor
```

If you are on Windows and intend to use custom domains (other than `.localhost`), make sure you run the doctor as Administrator once to verify hosts file access.

Commit message:

feat: Implement enhanced AddRouteWizard with multi-step UX improvements
- Introduced a new AddRouteWizard in wizard.py, replacing the existing modal.
- Added ghost port detection, identity & target validation, access method selection, routing mode options, and a review step.
- Improved user experience with real-time validation and visual feedback.
- Updated CSS for better styling and responsiveness.

docs: Add architecture overview for TUI

- Created tui-architecture.md to document the structure and design principles of the Devhost TUI.
- Included module map, key components, message flow, and testing guidelines.

chore: Create installer entrypoint shim

- Added install.py as an entry point for the Devhost installer.

test: Add tests for command palette and installer functionality

- Implemented test_palette.py to verify command palette widgets and event handlers.
- Created test_installer_helper.py to ensure installer workflow and helper functions work as expected.
- Added test_proxy_header_sanitization.py to validate proxy header sanitization logic.

docs/installation.md, after:

# Installation Guide

Devhost is a Python-based tool. It works on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

## Prerequisites

- **Python 3.10 or higher**
- **pip** (Python package manager)

## 1. Core Installation

Install the core package from PyPI:

```bash
pip install devhost
```

## 2. Optional Extras

Devhost offers several extras for specific workflows:

| Extra | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `[tui]` | Interactive terminal dashboard (`devhost dashboard`) |
| `[qr]` | QR code generation for mobile access |
| `[fastapi]` | Helpers for FastAPI integration |
| `[flask]` | Helpers for Flask integration |
| `[django]` | Helpers for Django integration |
| `[dev]` | Testing and linting tools (for contributors) |

To install multiple extras:
```bash
pip install "devhost[tui,qr,fastapi]"
```

## 3. System Proxy (Optional)

If you plan to use **System Mode** (portless URLs on 80/443), you need **Caddy** installed on your system.

### Windows
The easiest way is via [WinGet](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli):
```powershell
winget install CaddyServer.Caddy
```
Or download the binary from [caddyserver.com](https://caddyserver.com/download).

### macOS
Using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):
```bash
brew install caddy
```

### Linux
Follow the [official installation instructions](https://caddyserver.com/docs/install#debian-ubuntu-raspbian) for your distribution.

### Optional: Devhost Installer Helper

You can also use the Devhost installer helper to perform opt-in setup steps:

```bash
devhost install --caddy
devhost install --install-completions
devhost install --domain mydev.local
```

The installer will ask for confirmation before running package manager commands.
Use `--dry-run` to preview actions and `--yes` to skip confirmations.

## 4. Verification

Run the diagnostics command to ensure everything is set up correctly:

```bash
devhost doctor
```

If you are on Windows and intend to use custom domains (other than `.localhost`), make sure you run the doctor as Administrator once to verify hosts file access.
